# Drug-Discovery-with-AI
Project to discover drugs using data science and application of bio informatics.

# What is drug discovery?

The process starts with identifying a hypothesis about a disease in question, typically revealing a malfunctioning protein leading to the disease or pathology. Proteins are the workhorses of our body. They perform most of the biological tasks required for our survival — from synthesizing molecules and mediating signals between cells and tissues to fighting infections. Most diseases are conditioned by the malfunctioning of one or several proteins at some point: they might possess a the wrong shape or chemical composition. These errors can lead to mistakes in biochemical reactions and, as a result — systemic damage to the body. Even a slight variation in any given protein may cause severe consequences or even death. The protein believed to be playing a role in disease development and progression is called a "target."

Once the target is identified, intensive follow-on research must be conducted to prove that the choice was correct — a process called "target validation." This work includes various studies, ranging from solving the crystal structure of the target protein to confirming its association with the disease in question. The association between a target and a disease is a crucial step in drug discovery that could lead to either the success or failure of the entire program. While every effort is made to understand the target's role in a disease, the correctness of choice becomes fully obvious only years later — during clinical trials in humans.

Target identification and validation are followed by discovering ways to influence the malfunctioning protein — typically by switching it off or changing its activity. This stage is done by medicinal chemistry departments or specialized contract research companies and involves large-scale screening programs where thousands or millions of chemical compounds are tested to see if they can influence the target in a beneficial way. The molecules with acceptable activity are called "hits." Of these "hits" many turn out to be false positives, and only a small number are eventually confirmed and selected to become "leads."
